Full documentation of AZSL & AZSLc. (#1158)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/atom-guide/dev-guide/shaders/azsl/srg-semantics.md

---
linktitle: SRG Semantics
title: AZSL, Shader Resource Group Semantics (ShaderResourceGroupSemantic).

> description: Learn about AZSL Shader Resource Group Semantics in the Atom Renderer.

Author: Fixed.

weight: 100
---

> The `ShaderResourceGroupSemantic`, SRG Semantic, for short, defines the order in which descriptor bindings and descriptor sets (descriptor sets are also known as register spaces in HLSL) are emitted for each `ShaderResourceGroup`.  

Author: HLSL familiarity is expected.

  
    ShaderResourceGroupSemantic <name>
    {
        FrequencyId = <0-based index>;
        [ShaderVariantFallback = <number of bits>;] // (Optional)

>     }

Author: Fixed.

  
Conceptually, an SRG Semantic relates to the frequency of change of SRG data. In particular, the render pipeline has a predefined set of SRG Semantics in "&lt;Engine Root&gt;/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli".  

> https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/main/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli  

Author: Fixed.

  
* `SRG_PerDraw`: Data changes per draw packet. Highest frequency.
* `SRG_PerObject`: Data changes per object.
* `SRG_PerMaterial`: Data changes per material.
* `SRG_PerSubPass`: Data changes per sub-pass.
* `SRG_PerPass`: Data changes per pass.
* `SRG_PerPass_WithFallback`: Same as SRG_PerPass, but used for cases where the Pass SRG defines the Fallback key.
* `SRG_PerView`: Data changes per viewport, because each viewport has its own camera.
* `SRG_PerScene`: Data changes per scene. Lowest frequency.
* `SRG_RayTracingGlobal`: Reserved for ray tracing shaders.

> * `SRG_RayTracingLocal_[1..7]`: Reserved for ray tracing shaders.

Author: Fixed.

> ## FrequencyId: Defining the order of emission and register space utilization.
> With the value of `FrequencyId` we can define in what order we utilize the register space when compiling SRGs.  
> Consider the following SRG definitions:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `FrequencyId`

The value of `FrequencyId` defines the order of the compiled SRGs in register space and the order in which they are emitted.

Consider the following SRG definitions:
```

Author: Fixed

>     ShaderResourceGroupSemantic SRG_PerDraw
>     {
>         FrequencyId = 0;
>     }
>     ShaderResourceGroupSemantic SRG_PerObject
>     {
>         FrequencyId = 1;
>     }
>     
>     ShaderResourceGroup ObjectSrg : SRG_PerObject
>     {
>         int                      m_objectCounter;
>         Texture2D<float4>        m_texture;
>         RWTexture2D<float4>      m_rwtexture;
>         Sampler                  m_sampler;
>     }
>     
>     // Even though "DrawSrg" is declared after "ObjectSrg",
>     // it uses a ShaderResourceGroupSemantic with higher frequency(FrequencyId == 0)
>     // than "ObjectSrg" with lower frequency (FrequencyId == 1).
>     // This means the resources of "DrawSrg" will be emitted before the resources
>     // of "ObjectSrg".
>     ShaderResourceGroup DrawSrg : SRG_PerDraw
>     {
>         int                      m_drawCounter;
>         Texture2D<float4>        m_texture;
>         RWTexture2D<float4>      m_rwtexture;
>         Sampler                  m_sampler;
>     }

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```c
ShaderResourceGroupSemantic SRG_PerDraw
{
    FrequencyId = 0;
}
ShaderResourceGroupSemantic SRG_PerObject
{
    FrequencyId = 1;
}
    
ShaderResourceGroup ObjectSrg : SRG_PerObject
{
    int                      m_objectCounter;
    Texture2D<float4>        m_texture;
    RWTexture2D<float4>      m_rwtexture;
    Sampler                  m_sampler;
}
    
// Even though "DrawSrg" is declared after "ObjectSrg", it uses
// a ShaderResourceGroupSemantic with higher frequency (FrequencyId == 0)
// than "ObjectSrg" with lower frequency (FrequencyId == 1).
// This means the resources of "DrawSrg" will be emitted before the
// resources of "ObjectSrg".
ShaderResourceGroup DrawSrg : SRG_PerDraw
{
    int                      m_drawCounter;
    Texture2D<float4>        m_texture;
    RWTexture2D<float4>      m_rwtexture;
    Sampler                  m_sampler;
}
```
````

Author: Fixed

> When compiling the AZSL code shown above, with default arguments, it will yield the following HLSL code:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the AZSL code shown above is compiled with default arguments, it yields the following HLSL code:
```

Author: Fixed.

>     /* Generated code from
>     ShaderResourceGroup ObjectSrg
>     */
>     Texture2D<float4> ObjectSrg_m_texture : register(t1);
>     
>     RWTexture2D<float4> ObjectSrg_m_rwtexture : register(u1);
>     
>     SamplerState ObjectSrg_m_sampler : register(s1);
>     
>     struct ObjectSrg_SRGConstantsStruct
>     {
>         int ObjectSrg_m_objectCounter;
>     };
>     
>     ConstantBuffer<::ObjectSrg_SRGConstantsStruct> ObjectSrg_SRGConstantBuffer : register(b1);
>     
>     /* Generated code from
>     ShaderResourceGroup DrawSrg
>     */
>     Texture2D<float4> DrawSrg_m_texture : register(t0);
>     
>     RWTexture2D<float4> DrawSrg_m_rwtexture : register(u0);
>     
>     SamplerState DrawSrg_m_sampler : register(s0);
>     
>     struct DrawSrg_SRGConstantsStruct
>     {
>         int DrawSrg_m_drawCounter;
>     };
>     
>     ConstantBuffer<::DrawSrg_SRGConstantsStruct> DrawSrg_SRGConstantBuffer : register(b0);

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```c
// Generated code from ShaderResourceGroup ObjectSrg
Texture2D<float4> ObjectSrg_m_texture : register(t1);
    
RWTexture2D<float4> ObjectSrg_m_rwtexture : register(u1);
    
SamplerState ObjectSrg_m_sampler : register(s1);
    
struct ObjectSrg_SRGConstantsStruct
{
    int ObjectSrg_m_objectCounter;
};
    
ConstantBuffer<::ObjectSrg_SRGConstantsStruct> ObjectSrg_SRGConstantBuffer : register(b1);

// Generated code from ShaderResourceGroup DrawSrg

Texture2D<float4> DrawSrg_m_texture : register(t0);
    
RWTexture2D<float4> DrawSrg_m_rwtexture : register(u0);
    
SamplerState DrawSrg_m_sampler : register(s0);
    
struct DrawSrg_SRGConstantsStruct
{
    int DrawSrg_m_drawCounter;
};
    
ConstantBuffer<::DrawSrg_SRGConstantsStruct> DrawSrg_SRGConstantBuffer : register(b0);
```
````

Author: Fixed.

---
linktitle: SRG Semantics
title: Shader Resource Group Semantics (ShaderResourceGroupSemantic).
description: Learn about Amazon Shading Language (AZSL) shader resource group semantics (SRG) for Atom Renderer.
weight: 100
---

> The `ShaderResourceGroupSemantic`, SRG Semantic, for short, defines the order in which descriptor bindings and descriptor sets (descriptor sets are also known as register spaces in HLSL) are emitted for each `ShaderResourceGroup`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Shader Resource Group Semantic (SRG Semantic), for short, defines the order in which descriptor bindings and descriptor sets are emitted for each SRG. In HLSL, descriptor sets are also known as _register spaces_.   In AZSL, define SRGs by using the `ShaderResourceGroupSemantic` class. 
```
* Consider the following suggestion to separate the "concept" of SRGs from the code syntax of defining an SRG.

Author: Fixed.

```cpp
    ShaderResourceGroupSemantic <name>
    {
        FrequencyId = <0-based index>;

>         [ShaderVariantFallback = <number of bits>;] // (Optional)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        [ShaderVariantFallback = <number of bits>;] // Optional
```

Author: Fixed.

    }
```

> An SRG semantic relates to the frequency of change of SRG data. The render pipeline has a predefined set of SRG semantics in [`<Engine Root>/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/main/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli) 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An SRG Semantic relates to the frequency of change of SRG data. The render pipeline has a predefined set of SRG semantics in [`<Engine Root>/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli`](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/main/Gems/Atom/Feature/Common/Assets/ShaderLib/Atom/Features/SrgSemantics.azsli) 
```
* Be consistent with terminology. Should it be "SRG semantic" or "SRG Semantic" with a capital "S"?

Author: Fixed.

    
    ConstantBuffer<::DrawSrg_SRGConstantsStruct> DrawSrg_SRGConstantBuffer : register(b3, space0);
    
```
Note, for each register space, in this case, each SRG, all registers start at 0, BUT resources that belong to `DrawSrg` are bound to register space 0, while resources that belong to `ObjectSrg` are bound to space 1. This ordering of register spaces was determined by the `FrequencyId` member of the SRG Semantics.  
  
## ShaderVariantFallback: Defining Who Owns The Bit Array Of Options
`ShaderVariantFallback` is an optional keyword that marks an SRG as the owner of the array of bits where all Shader Variants will be encoded.  

> Because there can only be one array of bits to encode the Shader variant options, only one SRG can bind to an SRG Semantic that uses the `ShaderVariantFallback` keyword.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because there can only be one array of bits to encode the shader variant options, only one SRG can bind to an SRG Semantic that uses the `ShaderVariantFallback` keyword.  
```

Author: Fixed.

> If a shader makes no use of Shader variant options, then the `ShaderVariantFallback` is not required to be used.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a shader makes no use of shader variant options, then the `ShaderVariantFallback` is not required to be used.  
```

Author: Fixed.

> For a deeper dive into Shader variant options encoding see: [Shader variant options & The Fallback Key](shader-variants-fallback-key).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a deeper dive into shader variant options encoding see: [Shader variant options & The Fallback Key](shader-variants-fallback-key).
```

Author: Fixed.
